1. What’s the difference between == and ===?
2. Explain var, let, and const.
3. What is hoisting? real usecase
4. Explain closures with a simple example. real usecase
5. What is the event loop in JavaScript?
6. What are microtasks and macrotasks?
7. What is this in JavaScript, and how does it change?
8. Explain call, apply, and bind.
9. What are arrow functions and how do they handle this?
10. What is scope and the difference between function and block scope?
11. What’s the difference between null and undefined?
12. What are truthy and falsy values?
13. Explain shallow copy vs deep copy.
14. What are higher-order functions?
15. What is debouncing and throttling?
16. What’s the difference between for…in, for…of, and forEach?
17. What are template literals in JS?
18. Explain default parameters and rest/spread operators.
19. What are pure functions and side effects?
20. What is an IIFE (Immediately Invoked Function Expression)?

💻 20 Coding Questions

1. Implement a polyfill for Array.map().
2. Write a function to reverse a string.
3. Implement a debounce function.
4. Implement a throttle function.
5. Write a function to flatten a nested array.
6. Write a function to find the largest number in an array.
7. Write a function to find duplicates in an array.
8. Write a function to remove falsy values from an array.
9. Write a function to count character frequency in a string.
10. Write a function to check if two strings are anagrams.
11. Implement a deep clone of an object.
12. Write a function to sum all numbers in an array.
13. Implement a custom reduce() method.
14. Write a function to capitalize the first letter of each word.
15. Write a function to check if a string is a palindrome.
16. Write a function to merge two sorted arrays.
17. Implement a function to chunk an array.
18. Write a function to find the intersection of two arrays.
19. Write a function to remove duplicates from an array.
20. Write a function to convert an object to a query string.

Deep copy vs shallow copy (Drive link , indepth example ) : https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1e-qnb-76Ye2GezUewZBKMLIp_5t2_wo9
21.  const original = {
        name: "Vaibhav",
        skills: ["React", "Node"]
    };
    const shallow = { ...original };
    // Changing a top-level property (Safe)
    shallow.name = "Mishra"; 
    // Changing a nested property (NOT Safe)
    shallow.skills.push("Next.js");
    console.log(original.name);   // "Vaibhav" (Original is unchanged)
    console.log(original.skills); // ["React", "Node", "Next.js"] (Original is MODIFIED!)
    why name not changed but skill changes, understand in depth , deep copy vs shallow copy , on array, object ,string, mutalbe vs immutavble, copy by value vs copy by reference , strurctruedclone etc.





Why does typeof null return "object"?
What happens if you call a function before it’s declared with let?
What’s the difference between [] == ![] and [] === ![]?
How does React’s reconciliation algorithm decide what to re-render?
Why can’t WeakMap keys be primitives?
How does tree-shaking actually remove unused code?
Why do hydration mismatches occur in SSR React apps?





1. How does mark-and-sweep garbage collection free memory in JS engines?


2. What are common memory leaks in front-end apps — and how do you detect them?


3. How does the critical rendering path determine when pixels appear on screen?


4. What’s the difference between reflow and repaint, and how can you minimize them?


5. How does CORS preflight work, and what’s the role of SameSite cookies in security?


6. How do service workers handle caching and background sync in PWAs?


7. What are microtasks vs macrotasks, and how does that affect async execution order?


8. How does hydration work in React after server-side rendering?


9. What is tree-shaking, and why do side effects prevent it?


10. How does virtual DOM reconciliation decide which elements to re-render?





1. What is the Critical Rendering Path and how can you optimize it?
→ Understanding how browsers parse, render, and block content directly impacts performance metrics like LCP and FCP.


2. What’s the difference between Reflow and Repaint — and how can you minimize layout thrashing?
→ Every DOM measurement and write operation can trigger expensive recalculations. Knowing how to batch them is key to silky-smooth UI.


3. How does Garbage Collection work in JavaScript (mark-and-sweep)?
→ Interviewers want to know if you understand why memory leaks happen — not just how to clear them.


4. Explain SameSite cookies and how they affect authentication in SPAs.
→ This topic merges frontend, browser, and security — a perfect test of holistic understanding.


5. What are Service Workers and how do they enable offline caching (stale-while-revalidate pattern)?
→ Mastering this shows you understand the line between frontend development and progressive web app engineering.
